# topguide

**Category:** Commands > Acquire > More

## NAME

**topguide** - Open the TopGuide acquisition and processing tool


## DESCRIPTION

The command topguide opens a guided acquisition and processing tool: TopGuide. This tool is a guide for setting up and processing NMR experiments. As the name implies, it is an interactive guide, which guides the user through the necessary and important steps after the insert of a new sample (tuning & matching the sample, locking, shimming) and the following process of running a basic 1H 1D (reference) experiment. After these initial steps it offers a database with the basic 1D and 2D NMR experiments and helps the user to set those up.
 
The special user interface of TopGuide guides the user through all the steps and decisions the user has to make. Each item within the user interface has its own help context. The help text describes the action the user has to take, gives explanations for parameters, provides explanations for procedures and/or some background information.
TopGuide keeps track of the experiments which were run using TopGuide and stores this information in a database. For each sample (i.e. Name) the status window (Performed Experiments) shows the list of experiments which are setup (Acquisition no) or done (Acquisition yes) and if processing has been done or not (Processing yes/no). The status list provides an easy way to access these datasets: a simple left click will load the dataset into the upper part of the window, a right click pops up a context menu which gives access to either acquisition or processing parameters or some other dataset related commands.
On the right is a tool bar with 4 buttons for the basic operation. GO starts the acquisition on the current dataset. The spooler mechanism (acquisition queue) enables the user to run more than 1 experiment in a row. It is an option and the user should enable auto-queuing in the Preference dialog. If enabled, all acquisition commands are automatically send into this queue. The Queue button offers the possibility to use the queue even if auto-queuing is disabled or to delay the start of an acquisition by entering a certain start time. The Tools button gives access to preferences and some other options and to leave TopGuide (Quit). STOP will stop the current acquisition and will disable the spooler. This is meant to be used as an emergency stop. If the user wants to end a running acquisition in a defined manner, he should type halt instead of stop (or halt 8 on AVANCE II and newer spectrometers). halt will finish the current scan and writes the acquired data to disk.
### General Concept of TopGuide

If a new sample should be measured some initial set up steps are strongly advised: tuning & matching the probe to the sample susceptibility, locking and shimming. TopGuide will lead the user through these initial steps by either doing all this automatically or giving help information for manual operation. The automatic execution, of course, depends on the hardware configuration. A probe equipped with ATMA and a Z-gradient coil allows this. Without this hardware, some manual steps are required, and the user is guided through manual tuning & matching and/or manual shimming. If a Z-gradient is present, TopGuide assumes that automatic gradient shimming is set up and it will be used by TopGuide. TopGuide caches the information about these steps executed, so further measurements (within the same TopGuide session) on the same sample will not ask for this again, unless the user changes the nucleus to be measured. If, for example, a 1H,13C-HSQC had been measured and therefore TopGuide knows that the probe is tuned to 1H and 13C, and you now want to run a 1H,15N-HSQC (let's assume you have a BBI probe and therefore this is possible), TopGuide will request to tune & match again, now to 15N instead of 13C.
The use of TopGuide to setup new experiments is based on a recorded 1H 1D spectrum. This proton spectrum is used to determine the signal to noise ratio (S/N) for this sample. TopGuide will select the highest signal in the spectrum (solvent peaks are automatically excluded), but the user may select a different peak/area for the S/N calculation. This may be of interest if the highest signal doesn't belong to the investigated compound in the case of mixtures or impurities. The determined S/N is used to estimate the number of scans (NS) for further experiments, to obtain a spectrum with reasonable S/N.
TopGuide provides a database with basic 1D and 2D experiments. TopGuide will only offer those experiments, which may be run on the current hardware, i.e. if the current probe doesn't have a gradient, TopGuide will not offer any experiment using gradients, but if the probe is equipped with a gradient, TopGuide will preferably offer experiments using gradients. If the current probe is a 13C/1H dual probe, TopGuide will not offer any 15N experiment. There are some more filter criteria based on the field strength. TopGuide doesn't use parameter sets like IconNMR. Therefore, TopGuide will never show the same experiments as you would see in the listing of parameter sets, it will always show recommended experiments.
Before an additional experiment is performed, TopGuide will ask you to determine the spectral width (SW) to be used in the proton dimension. It will pre-select the region with peaks found in the reference spectrum. You may change this to your needs but be aware that for homonuclear 2D measurements this SW will be applied to the indirect dimension as well. If you select a region which cuts off some signals, you may get folding of these peaks in the indirect dimension of a homonuclear 2D. The information about your selected SW is stored together with the reference spectrum and will be used in all further 1H dimensions for this sample.
The database contains reasonable acquisition and processing parameters for all experiments in it. Some parameters are fixed (typical coupling constants), some are dynamic and are chosen based on the molecular size (like relaxation times or NOESY mixing times), the field strength (TD) or the actual experiment (different SW for 13C in HSQC and HMBC).
### Tools Button

The Tools button gives access to some preferences and options. 
Data Directory: the user can select the data directory where the NMR data is stored (disk unit). The initial setting depends on how TopGuide has been started. If you start TopGuide on a loaded dataset, it will keep that disk unit, if you start with no active dataset this will open a new window and the data path defaults to the TopSpin installation directory (i.e. C:\Bruker\TopSpin under Windows or /opt/topspin under Linux).
User: if additional IconNMR users are defined, you can login as one of those.
Preferences: you can enable or disable auto-processing. Depending on this setting newly acquired data is automatically processed with default processing parameters and options, or not.
Protected acquisition: this means that once an FID or SER file has been acquired it is protected by TopGuide, you are not allowed to overwrite it. The start of a new acquisition on a dataset with an existing FID/SER file will automatically create a new dataset (i.e. expno).
Protected processing: the same protection as described above is applied to processed data. Existing ones are not overwritten, but instead a new procno is created.
Import reference: Setting up experiments with TopGuide requires a reference 1D spectrum, which is measured with TopGuide by default. If a 1D spectrum has already been recorded outside of TopGuide and you want to use this one as a reference for further experiments, you can import it into TopGuide. The import searches all expnos of the current dataset and displays the available 1D 1H spectra.


## SEE ALSO

zg, go, stop, halt
© 2025 Bruker BioSpin GmbH & Co. KG
